add section for getters and setters (#6830)
dart-lang/site-www: src/content/language/functions.md

[conditional expression]: /language/operators#conditional-expressions
[Flutter]: {{site.flutter}}
[trailing commas]: /language/collections#lists

## Getters and setters

While getters and setters are very commonly used within classes, they are special functions that provide read and write access to an object's properties. Getters read and return the values of the properties. Setter functions take a parameter and assign it to the property. 

> Getters and setters control access to a property and are most useful when you want to protect or manage an internal private variable. 

Reviewer: This is perhaps a bit too narrow. Here's one way to give the reader a broader perspective on the topic:

Every property access (top-level, static, instance) amounts to an invocation of a getter or a setter. A variable implicitly induces a getter, and it may also induce a setter (if the variable is mutable). That's the reason why reading a property invokes a getter, and writing a property invokes a setter, even in the case where the property is declared to be a variable.

However, we can also declare a getter or a setter explicitly (using the keywords `get` or `set`). This allows the reading and/or writing of a property to be handled by a computation.

That's the whole point of having getters and setters: The client does not depend on whether the property is stored or computed, so the provider is free to make changes.

For example, the value of the property might not be stored anywhere, it could be computed each time the getter is called. Another example would be that the value is stored in a private variable, and public access occurs by calling a getter and/or a setter. In this case the getter and setter can be used to enforce that every read and write of the underlying variable is accompanied by some extra computations, e.g., validating or post-processing the value which is stored in the private variable:

[the `_secret` example]

[conditional expression]: /language/operators#conditional-expressions
[Flutter]: {{site.flutter}}
[trailing commas]: /language/collections#lists

> ## Getters and setters

Reviewer 2: This section looks great. Can you go through the markdown file and make sure that all lines are under 80 characters? There should be a setting in VS Code that let's you track when something goes over that line. If you need help finding it, let me know.

Every property access (top-level, static, or instance) is an invocation of a getter or a setter. A variable implicitly creates a getter and, if it's mutable, a setter. This is why when you access a property, you're actually calling a small function in the background. Reading a property calls a getter function, and writing one calls a setter function, even in cases where the property is declared a variable. 

However, you can also declare a getter or a setter explicitly (using the keywords `get` or `set`). This allows a property's value to be computed when it's read or written.

The purpose of using getters and setters is to create a clear separation between the client (the code that uses the property) and the provider (the class that defines it). The client asks for or sets a value without needing to know if that value is stored in a simple variable or calculated on the spot. This gives the provider the freedom to change how the property works. 

> For example, the value of the property might not be stored anywhere, it could be computed each time the getter is called. Another example is when a value is stored in a private variable, and public access is only allowed by calling a getter or a setter. The example below showcases this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, because the value of the property might not be stored anywhere, it could be computed each time the getter is called. Another example is that when a value is stored in a private variable, public access is only allowed by calling a getter or a setter. The example below showcases this.
```

```dart
/// Defines a private variable secret with `_`.
String _secret = 'Hello';

> /// The public top-level GETTER.

Reviewer 2: Let's change `GETTER` to `getter` and `SETTER` to `setter` in the sample to be consistent with style, although I get why this was uppercased.

/// It provides read access to the [_secret].
String get secret {
  print('Getter was used!');
  return _secret.toUpperCase();
}

/// The public top-level SETTER.
/// It provides write access to the [_secret].
set secret(String newMessage) {
  print('Setter was used! New secret: "$newMessage"');
  if (newMessage.isNotEmpty) {
    _secret = newMessage;
  }
}

void main() {
  // Reading the value calls the GETTER.
  print('Current message: ${secret}');

>   // Output:

Reviewer 2: I wonder if this might look better since it's meant for multi-line comments:

/*
Output:
Getter was used!
Current message: HELLO
*/

I would test and see what the preview looks like. If it looks good, I'd swap this and the other outputs, otherwise what you're using should be fine. I think this is a something we probably need to document in our documentation guide. I'll look into that.
